# 2.Lists and Dictionaries

## Item 13: Prefer Catch-All Unpacking Over Slicing

```python
oldest, second_oldest, *others = car_ages_descending
print(oldest, second_oldest, others)

>> >
20 19 [15, 9, 8, 7, 6, 4, 1, 0]
```

- Unpacking assignments may use a starred expression to catch all values that weren’t assigned to the other parts of the unpacking pattern into a list.
- Starred expressions may appear in any position, and they will always become a list containing the zero or more values they receive.
- When dividing a list into non-overlapping pieces, catch-all unpacking is much less error prone than slicing and indexing

## Item 14: Sort by Complex Criteria Using the key Parameter

```python
nums = [93, 86, 11, 68, 70]
nums.sort()
```


对于内置类型（int，floats，str）可以天然排序，但是复杂类型，如自定义的类怎么办？

```python
class Tool:
    def __init__(self, name, weight):
    	self.name = name
    	self.weight = weight

def __repr__(self):
	return f'Tool({self.name!r}, {self.weight})'

tools = [Tool('level', 3.5),
         Tool('hammer', 1.25),
         Tool('screwdriver', 0.5),
         Tool('chisel', 0.25),
]

tools.sort(key=lambda x: x.name)
```

sort 函数可以传入一个 key 参数，用来指定按照某个“属性”排序。

- The sort method of the list type can be used to rearrange a list’s contents by the natural ordering of built-in types like strings, integers, tuples, and so on.
- The sort method doesn’t work for objects unless they define a natural ordering using special methods, which is uncommon.
- The key parameter of the sort method can be used to supply a helper function that returns the value to use for sorting in place of each item from the list.
- Returning a tuple from the key function allows you to combine multiple sorting criteria together. The unary minus operator can be used to reverse individual sort orders for types that allow it.
- For types that can’t be negated, you can combine many sorting criteria together by calling the sort method multiple times using different key functions and reverse values, in the order of lowest rank sort call to highest rank sort call.

## Item 15: Be Cautious When Relying on dict Insertion Ordering

- Since Python 3.7, you can rely on the fact that iterating a dict instance’s contents will occur in the same order in which the keys were initially added

## Item 16: Prefer get Over in and KeyError to Handle Missing Dictionary Keys

```python
data = {}
key = 'foo'
value = []
data.setdefault(key, value)
print('Before:', data)
value.append('hello')
print('After: ', data)

>>>
Before: {'foo': []}
After: {'foo': ['hello']}
```

- There are four common ways to detect and handle missing keys in dictionaries: using `in` expressions, `KeyError` exceptions, the `get` method, and the `setdefault` method.
- The `get` method is best for dictionaries that contain basic types like counters, and it is preferable along with assignment expressions when creating dictionary values has a high cost or may raise exceptions.
- When the `setdefault` method of `dict` seems like the best fit for your problem, you should consider using defaultdict instead.

## Item 17: Prefer defaultdict Over setdefault to Handle Missing Items in Internal State

```python
from collections import defaultdict
```

- If you’re creating a dictionary to manage an arbitrary set of potential keys, then you should prefer using a defaultdict instance from the collections built-in module if it suits your problem.
- If a dictionary of arbitrary keys is passed to you, and you don’t control its creation, then you should prefer the get method to access its items. However, it’s worth considering using the setdefault method for the few situations in which it leads to shorter code.

## Item 18: Know How to Construct Key-Dependent Default Values with __missing__

You can subclass the `dict` type and implement the `__missing__` special method to add custom logic for handling missing keys.

```python
class Pictures(dict):
    def __missing__(self, key):
        value = open_picture(key)
        self[key] = value
        return value
```
