# 3. Functions

## Item 19: Never Unpack More Than Three Variables When Functions Return Multiple Values

- Multiple return values from a function can also be unpacked by catch-all starred expressions
- Unpacking into four or more variables is error prone and should be avoided; instead, return a small class or `namedtuple` instance

## Item 20: Prefer Raising Exceptions to Returning None

- Functions that return None to indicate special meaning are error prone because None and other values (e.g., zero, the empty string) all evaluate to False in conditional expressions
- Raise exceptions to indicate special situations instead of returning None. Expect the calling code to handle exceptions properly when they’re documented
- Type annotations can be used to make it clear that a function will never return the value None, even in special situations

## Item 21: Know How Closures Interact with Variable Scope

```python
def sort_priority2(numbers, group):
    found = False

    def helper(x):
        if x in group:
            found = True
            return (1, x)
    numbers.sort(key=helper)
    return found
numbers = [8, 3, 1, 2, 5, 4, 7, 6]
group = {2, 3, 5, 7}
found = sort_priority2(numbers, group)
print('Found:', found)
print(numbers)

>>>
Found: False
[2, 3, 5, 7, 1, 4, 6, 8]
```

上面代码排序的结果是对的，但是 found 的值却是 False，这是为啥？

When you reference a variable in an expression, the Python interpreter traverses the scope to resolve the reference in this order:

1. The current function’s scope. 
2. Any enclosing scopes (such as other containing functions). 
3. The scope of the module that contains the code (also called the global scope)
4. The built-in scope (that contains functions like len and str)

Assigning a value to a variable works differently:

- If the variable is already defined in the current scope, it will just take on the new value
- If the variable doesn’t exist in the current scope, Python treats the assignment as a variable definition

引用变量和对变量赋值是两种操作，引用会一级级作用域向上寻找，赋值只会在当前作用域寻找，没有就新定义一个变量。

所以上面的 found 是 False

In Python, there is special syntax for getting data out of a closure

- The `nonlocal` statement is used to indicate that scope traversal should happen upon assignment for a specific variable name
- The only limit is that `nonlocal` won’t traverse up to the module-level scope (to avoid polluting globals)

```Python
def sort_priority3(numbers, group):
    found = False

    def helper(x):
    	nonlocal found
        if x in group:
            found = True
            return (1, x)
    numbers.sort(key=helper)
    return found
```

The `nonlocal` statement makes it clear when data is being assigned out of a closure and into another scope

It’s complementary to the `global` statement, which indicates that a variable’s assignment should go directly into the module scope

It’s especially hard to understand in long functions where the `nonlocal` statements and assignments to associated variables are far apart

When your usage of `nonlocal` starts getting complicated, it’s better to wrap your state in a helper class


```Python
class Sorter:
	def __init__(self, group):
		self.group = group
		self.found = False

	def __call__(self, x):
		if x in self.group:
			self.found = True
			return (0, x)
		return (1, x)

sorter = Sorter(group)
numbers.sort(key=sorter)
assert sorter.found is True
```

- Closure functions can refer to variables from any of the scopes in which they were defined
- By default, closures can’t affect enclosing scopes by assigning variables
- Use the nonlocal statement to indicate when a closure can modify a variable in its enclosing scopes
- Avoid using `nonlocal` statements functions

## Item 22: Reduce Visual Noise with Variable Positional Arguments

```Python
def log(message, values):
	if not values:
		print(message)
	else:
		values_str = ', '.join(str(x) for x in values)
		print(f'{message}: {values_str}')

log('My numbers are', [1, 2])
log('Hi there', [])

>>>
My numbers are: 1, 2
Hi there
```

在上面的函数中，即使没有第二个参数也得传个空列表


```Python
def log(message, *values): # The only difference
	if not values:
		print(message)
	else:
		values_str = ', '.join(str(x) for x in values)
		print(f'{message}: {values_str}')

log('My numbers are', 1, 2)
log('Hi there') # Much better

>>>
My numbers are: 1, 2
Hi there
```

- Functions can accept a variable number of positional arguments by using `*args` in the def statement
- You can use the items from a sequence as the positional arguments for a function with the * operator
- Using the * operator with a generator may cause a program to run out of memory and crash
- Adding new positional parameters to functions that accept `*args` can introduce hard-to-detect bugs

## Item 23: Provide Optional Behavior with Keyword Arguments

- Function arguments can be specified by position or by keyword
- Keywords make it clear what the purpose of each argument is when it would be confusing with only positional arguments
- Keyword arguments with default values make it easy to add new behaviors to a function without needing to migrate all existing callers
- Optional keyword arguments should always be passed by keyword instead of by position

## Item 24: Use None and Docstrings to Specify Dynamic Default Arguments

```Python
from time import sleep
from datetime import datetime
def log(message, when=datetime.now()):
	print(f'{when}: {message}')

log('Hi there!')
sleep(0.1)
log('Hello again!')

>>>
2020-06-27 22:37:31.397882: Hi there!
2020-06-27 22:37:31.397882: Hello again!
```

有趣的结果，两个时间戳相同是我没想到的。

This doesn’t work as expected. The timestamps are the same because `datetime.now` is executed only a single time: when the function is defined

A default argument value is evaluated only once per module load, which usually happens when a program starts up. After the module containing this code is loaded, the datetime.now() default argument will never be evaluated again

解决办法是设置默认参数为 `None`，然后写函数注释

```Python
def log(message, when=None):
	"""Log a message with a timestamp.
	Args: 
		message: Message to print.
		when: datetime of when the message occurred. 
		Defaults to the present time.
	""" 
	if when is None:
		when = datetime.now()
	print(f'{when}: {message}')
```

Using None for default argument values is especially important when the arguments are `mutable`

```Python
import json

def decode(data, default={}):
	try:
		return json.loads(data)
	except ValueError:
		return default

foo = decode('bad data')
foo['stuff'] = 5
bar = decode('also bad')
bar['meep'] = 1
print('Foo:', foo)
print('Bar:', bar)
foo is bar

>>>
Foo: {'stuff': 5, 'meep': 1}
Bar: {'stuff': 5, 'meep': 1}
True
```

上面的结果很怪，原因是 dict 是个可变类型。

解决办法跟上面一样，设置 defaul 参数为 `None`

对于第一个问题还有个解决方案使用类型注解（type annotations）

```Python
from typing import Optional

def log_typed(message: str,
              when: Optional[datetime] = None) -> None:
    """Log a message with a timestamp.

            Args: message: Message to print.
                      when: datetime of when the message occurred.
                            Defaults to the present time.
    """
    if when is None:
        when = datetime.now()
    print(f'{when}: {message}')
```

- A default argument value is evaluated only once: during function definition at module load time. This can cause odd behaviors for dynamic values (like {}, [], or datetime.now())
- Use None as the default value for any keyword argument that has a dynamic value. Document the actual default behavior in the function’s docstring
- Using None to represent keyword argument default values also works correctly with type annotations

## Item 25: Enforce Clarity with Keyword-Only and Positional-Only Arguments

The * symbol in the argument list indicates the end of positional arguments and the beginning of keyword-only arguments:

```python
def safe_division_c(number, divisor, *,  # Changed
                    ignore_overflow=False, ignore_zero_division=False):
	pass

safe_division_c(1.0, 10**500, True, False)
>>>
Traceback ...
TypeError: safe_division_c() takes 2 positional arguments but 4 were given
```

* 意味着位置参数的结束和关键词参数的开始。

```python
def safe_division_c(numerator, denominator, *,  # Changed
                    ignore_overflow=False, ignore_zero_division=False):
	pass

safe_division_c(number=2, divisor=5)
>>>
Traceback ...
TypeError: safe_division_c() got an unexpected keyword argument 'number'
```

This is especially problematic because I never intended for number and divisor to be part of an explicit interface for this function

These were just convenient parameter names that I chose for the implementation, and I didn’t expect anyone to rely on them explicitly

Python 3.8 introduces a solution to this problem, called positional-only arguments. These arguments can be supplied only by position and never by keyword (the opposite of the keyword-only arguments demonstrated above)

The / symbol in the argument list indicates where positional-only arguments end

```python
def safe_division_d(numerator, denominator, /, *,  # Changed
                    ignore_overflow=False, ignore_zero_division=False):
	pass

safe_division_d(numerator=2, denominator=5)
>>>
Traceback ...
TypeError: safe_division_d() got some positional-only arguments passed as keyword arguments: 'numerator, denominator'
```

I can be sure that the first two required positional arguments in the definition of the safe_division_d function are decoupled from callers. I won’t break anyone if I change the parameters’ names again

One notable consequence of keyword- and positional-only arguments is that any parameter name between the / and * symbols in the argument list may be passed either by position or by keyword (which is the default for all function arguments in Python)

```python
def safe_division_d(numerator, denominator, /,  
					ndigits=10, *, 				# Changed
                    ignore_overflow=False, ignore_zero_division=False):
	pass
```

- Keyword-only arguments force callers to supply certain arguments
by keyword (instead of by position), which makes the intention of a function call clearer. Keyword-only arguments are defined after a single * in the argument list.
- Positional-only arguments ensure that callers can’t supply certain parameters using keywords, which helps reduce coupling. Positional-only arguments are defined before a single / in the argument list.
- Parameters between the / and * characters in the argument list may be supplied by position or keyword, which is the default for Python parameters.

## Item 26: Define Function Decorators with functools.wraps

```Python
def trace(func):
	def wrapper(*args, **kwargs):
		result = func(*args, **kwargs)
		print(f'{func.__name__}({args!r}, {kwargs!r})'
			  f'-> {result!r}')
		return result
	return wrapper

@trace
def fibonacci(n):
	"""Return the n-th Fibonacci number"""
	if n in (0, 1):
		return n
	return (fibonacci(n - 2) + fibonacci(n - 1))

# 等价于
fibonacci = trace(fibonacci)
```

```Python
fibonacci(4)
>>>
fibonacci((0,), {}) -> 0
fibonacci((1,), {}) -> 1
fibonacci((2,), {}) -> 1
fibonacci((1,), {}) -> 1
fibonacci((0,), {}) -> 0
fibonacci((1,), {}) -> 1
fibonacci((2,), {}) -> 1
fibonacci((3,), {}) -> 2
fibonacci((4,), {}) -> 3
```



```Python
print(fibonacci)
>>>
<function trace.<locals>.wrapper at 0x108955dc0>
```

The cause of this isn’t hard to see. The trace function returns the
wrapper defined within its body. The wrapper function is what’s assigned to the fibonacci name in the containing module because of the decorator. This behavior is problematic because it undermines tools that do introspection, such as debuggers

the `help` built-in function is useless when called on the decorated fibonacci function. It should instead print out the docstring defined above ('Return the n-th Fibonacci number'):

```Python
help(fibonacci)
>>>
Help on function wrapper in module __main__:
wrapper(*args, **kwargs)
```

Object serializers break because they can’t determine the location of the original function that was decorated

```Python
import pickle

pickle.dumps(fibonacci)
>>>
Traceback ...
AttributeError: Can't pickle local object 'trace.<locals>.wrapper'
```

The solution is to use the `wraps` helper function from the `functools` built-in module. This is a decorator that helps you write decorators. When you apply it to the wrapper function, it copies all of the important metadata about the inner function to the outer function:

```Python
def trace(func):
	@wraps(func)
	def wrapper(*args, **kwargs):
		...
	return wrapper

@trace
def fibonacci(n):
	...
```

Now, running the help function produces the expected result, even though the function is decorated:

```Python
help(fibonacci)

>>>
Help on function fibonacci in module __main__:

fibonacci(n)
	Return the n-th Fibonacci number
```

The pickle object serializer also works:

```python
print(pickle.dumps(fibonacci)) >>>
b'\x80\x04\x95\x1a\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x8c\x08__main__\ ¯x94\x8c\tfibonacci\x94\x93\x94.'
```

Python functions have many other standard attributes (e.g., __name__, __module__, __annotations__) that must be preserved to maintain the interface of functions in the language. Using `wraps` ensures that you’ll always get the correct behavior.

- Decorators in Python are syntax to allow one function to modify another function at runtime.
- Using decorators can cause strange behaviors in tools that do introspection, such as debuggers.
- Use the wraps decorator from the functools built-in module when you define your own decorators to avoid issues.